everyone welcome back Laszlo Montgomery
here at the China history podcast
episode two to three part six of our set
course meal intro to the history of
poetry and the Tang Dynasty even without
getting into any of the minutiae of
poetry appreciation and poem styles
imagery and Composition here we are six
episodes into this overview of tong
poetry and we only just finished the
Ronaldo and Messi of the era and well
this with European football where tong
poetry is concerned there's a lot more
to it than Levi and du feu in town
poetry or even all of Chinese poetry
some might say we know Li PI and du feu
enjoy such as special status it seems
that all the other beloved poets end up
looking like also-rans compared to them
but everyone who is really familiar with
Chinese poetry dad they don't fall for
any of that stuff they know every age
produced its own marvels and wonders and
who's to say this one by su-sure or
gucci is any better or worse than that
one composed by du feu i thought from
here on out why don't we run through
some of the other famous names from tong
poetry and if you're not familiar with
these poets yet now is your chance
we're tong poetry is concerned when
asked who were the top three pretty much
wrong way always rounds out that list
some might say hmong quran or by GE but
lee by du feu and wang wei that was
almost always the three names you hear
they were the revered trinity of height
on poetry li bai had a taoist bent to
his character du feu was the Confucian
ax stand wang wei he channeled Chan
Buddhism and his work his lifelong
devotion to Buddhism had quite an impact
on not just his life but his poems and
paintings as well up in
till the song Emperor crashed the party
in 845 Buddhism flourished in the tongue
like never before and was reflected in
many aspects of Chinese culture that
Wang Wei was so devout and all and isn't
surprising given the times he lived in
wang wei and li bai's years on this
earth were almost the same the most
reliable records we have say they were
both born in the year 701 although
that's disputed and for good reason it
was the time period when woods attend
was reigning as Empress of her very own
Jo Dynasty Li Bai died in 760 - and Wang
Wei in 761 Wang Wei was not only one of
the most beloved of tong poets he was
also a painter and a musician his
instrument that earned him this renowned
was the PIPA it's a for stringed lute
like sort of pear-shaped plucked
instrument if you search for Leo the
high on Spotify you could listen to one
a modern China's greatest peopie players
that's all I've been listening to since
I began work on this episode now before
we get to his poetry and painting let's
look at long ways early life he came
from a good family who lived in China
she he was born in that most ancient
part of China on the Yellow River about
halfway between Chang An and law young
his father was an official of middling
rank who continued the tradition in the
Wang family of serving the dynasty long
ways mother came from a substantial
family so to put it mildly he had it
made growing up it said he was one of
those child prodigies who everyone knew
was destined for all kinds of great
things at age 15 he was sent to law
young and Chung on to start training for
the gene share exams that guaranteed you
a favorable spot in the civil service he
was a he was a huge hit the Boy Wonder
I'm sure played a mean PIPA he passed
the exams at 7:21 thousands
took the exam at the same time only 38
passed and Wang Wei he had the top score
so you get the picture no ordinary
struggling youth who needed a few tries
to pass the exam with the prestige
earned from such a fine showing in the
gene sure exams plus the benefit of
coming from the kind of family he did
with influential friends and high places
Wang Wei didn't do too bad in his career
he had a couple of bumps in the road
here and there but he had some halfway
decent postings both in Chang An and in
Shandong province his career in the
government didn't have as many potholes
and disappointments as doufu and some of
the other great poets we'll get to later
in 731 his wife passed away he never
remarried and he left behind more than a
few poems where he reflected on this
loss and the sadness he felt a few years
later in 734 he was appointed to be
Emperor Shen songs reminder on the right
this by the way was the same job that
doufu had when he worked at the Imperial
Palace the yo sure Yi the reminder to
the right they had right and left not a
high ranking position but they were
charged with catching all the balls that
dropped and reminding the imperial court
about certain overlooked matters he had
to navigate around li linfu
just like du feu had to shine songs
powerful and suspicious chancellor was
not an easy boss to have he is an
official in the Tang government Wang Wei
did well between his government salary
and the sales of his paintings he had a
nice easy life as a musician he had
already made a name for himself in the
capital in painting however he was an
innovator and he's credited with being
one of the earliest to introduce
landscape painting shun Shui hua
landscape painting it began in the six
dynasties period but really came of age
during the Tong like so many other great
things about Chinese culture Wang Wei I
doubt he was the first but he was
certainly
one of the most celebrated the
monochrome shui more style that used one
color of ink is what wang wei is
remembered for he was both a developer
of this style of painting and one of its
earliest masters the poem ah or broken
ink or splashed ink method of ink brush
painting was what wang wei is
particularly remembered for and like
Wang Zhi Zhu's calligraphy none of wang
ways paintings survived to our day but
thanks to the early Chinese tradition of
imitating and faithfully copying the
Masters we have an idea what does
painting look like in Japanese culture
they also love this broken ink style of
painting - it's called ha beaucoup in
Japanese you know all these when Ren or
literati from these times from more than
a thousand years ago
this was all part of their skill set
poetry painting calligraphy music the
game of Go or Wei Qi everyone who had a
classical education can do all these
things but some mastered it more than
others or particularly talented and
innovative this type of monochromatic
painting that Wang Wei helped pioneer is
called the southern school these early
painters didn't call themselves that
southern school was a term that was
applied to this style much later on in
the 17th century this southern school or
non Songhua also became known as
literati painting when Renoir liked more
than a few things that came out of the
Tang Dynasty this style was
enthusiastically and wholeheartedly
embraced in the song and carried to even
further heights wang wei continued his
career in the civil service based in
chung on and that's where he was serving
when in 7:56 the city was seized by the
rebels led by an lushan
wang was among those captured and
marched to law young there he languished
till the city was retaken by imperial
troops at 7:58 according to the Wang Wei
legend
passed down to our time he didn't escape
in four months like doufu did but like
the poet sage he too remained true to
the tong emperor in whilst in captivity
he dragged his feet in the service of
the rebels even feigning deafness to
avoid having to be useful to them and
when it was all over and Wang Wei was
released attempts were made by his
political rivals to brand him a traitor
for serving the rebels thankfully for
Wang Wei he had also written a poem
during his time of captivity that
clearly showed despite being in the
hands of the rebels he never lost his
patriotism or loyalty towards the Tong
royal house one other thing in his favor
after he was released was the support he
got from his brother who was higher up
in the Tong civil bureaucracy totem-pole
and used his influence to get Wang Wei
off easy and keep his political rivals
at bay towards the end of his life in
the last year's of the unloose Shan
rebellion he retired to his nice country
estate on the Wong Tron River east of
present-day Xian in the town of LAN tien
and there in his final years he wrote
some of his best poetry I'm sure he
found time for painting as well it was
said he had quite a nice scholars
residence and indulged in all his
passions in this perfect environment
including his strong embrace of Chan
Buddhism the Song Dynasty heavyweight
champion in all matters cultural the
great su-sure said of Wang Wei quote
tastes wang ways poetry there are
paintings in it look at his paintings
they are full of poetry end quote
he's remembered for both one of the most
celebrated landscape paintings in the
southern school style was wang ways
depiction of his villa on the want Ron
River man as I said nothing done in wang
ways own hand exists but this work was
copied quite often and we can see it
today how close this comes to the Wang
Wei original we can't say though
the theme of these early literati
paintings were usually landscapes wall
monochromatic with some accompanying
calligraphy always a poem throughout
Chinese history there were others who
were particularly noted for this shun
Shui landscape style painting the
southern school wasn't as concerned
about capturing the landscape in any
realistic form instead the artist
interpreted themselves what they saw and
allowed for all kinds of freedoms of
expression to depict the scene they were
painting wrong ways tomb was located
along the banks of the Wong Tron River
south of LAN TN according to what I was
able to find out parts of his tomb were
either given a once-over during the
Cultural Revolution and/or utilized in
the construction of the Shang yang
number-14 factory if you ever find
yourself in or around LAN Tian go check
it out
and it looks like they spiffed up the
gravestone in 2008 that simply says Wang
Wei move the tomb of Wang Wei it's
located right in front of a thirteen
hundred year old gingko tree that claims
to have been planted by Wang Wei himself
I saw the photo and I thought man what a
sorry-looking monument this is so
depressing you know given Wang weighs
stature and all but then I considered
all those thousands of years of Chinese
history and concluded well you can't
turn every historical relic into a
shining tourist attraction Wang Wei
lovers next time you're in Xi'an his
tomb is about an hour southeast of the
city
let's groove on a few of Wang ways poems
he only left behind about four hundred I
think I may mention last episode Wang
Wei weighed in at a very respectable 29
poems that made it into the tongue sure
side by sha the 300 tongue poems only Li
PI and do full head more here's one of
Wang ways most famous poems it's only
four lines five characters per line
twenty characters he wrote this
after he left his government post and
retired to his Riverside Villa you could
feel long ways loneliness and exhaustion
trying to survive those terrible post on
luchon years
it's called Deer Park or the dare
enclosure Lu chai khon Shan Bucheon been
done when Ren ution fun Jing rushan lean
fool Cho Ching Kai Shang on this lonely
mountain I see no one yet I hear the
echo of voices rays of sunlight enter
into the deep forest shining once more
upon the green moss
here's another rather well-known one-way
poem
this one's six lines rather than the
usual four or eight but five characters
per line this is a wee and cool shirt a
five character poem in the ancient style
it's one of couple poems by Wang Wei
titled farewell song be a Shama en Junio
when June torture Jinyan puta gray war
non Chantry time qu ma foo one behind
rien Wu Jing shirt dismount and we'll
take a drink together where are you off
to you say you failed retiring to the
foot of the southern mountains well go
and no more questions for the white
clouds they'll never be an end here's
another one of Wang Wei is more famous
poems this time expressing loneliness
and isolation rather than saying
farewell this one is called on the
mountain holiday thinking of my brothers
in Shandong geoya Chiayi Shandong shanti
dudes i young way he could may function
they searching coucher shanti thunk ow
true
in cha Joo you shall even all alone in a
foreign land I am twice as homesick on
this day when brothers carry dogwood up
the mountain each of them a branch and
my branch missing and one more famous
one way poem
this one's called yearning shuns home
dou Xiang nan quoi
twin life our teacher Yan Jing thought
sighs suh young-su those red beings
of the south flush on the branches in
the spring take home an armful for my
sake as a symbol of our love
though Li Bai and du feu collectively
seemed to define tong poetry one way is
still mentioned in the same breath but
there were more poets than just those
three one last poet I'd like to
introduce from this height Ungh Chun
Tong period was monk Horan and coming in
at fifteen poems that made it to the
tang sure son by Zhao he too is
considered one of the more celebrated
poets of the tongue Hmong was the eldest
between the three poets I already
introduced he lived from about 690 to
740 he had about ten years I'm Li PI and
20 years on to Fuu so he was borderline
early to high tongue do you remember in
part 4 when I read the elite by poem
Huang hallo song Mongkol roger Guang
Ling sending off among Quran at yellow
crane tower Leap I was standing high
above the Yangtze River in that same
exquisite tower you could visit today
though it's not the same location it was
in the 8th century and from the heights
of this tower leap I watched Hmong
hollering sail his lonely vessel away
down the answer and leap I wrote a poem
in this genre that spawned who knows how
many poems throughout the ages
expressing one's emotions at the
departure of
someone they cared about Quan Colo is in
wuhan hubei province this is the land
that lays claim to Hmong hollering his
family trace their ancient lineage all
the way back to Hmong himself for most
of his life
Hmong Horan was relatively uncelebrated
and unknown but once he made it to the
big city
Chang hon all the literati of the day
were instantly enamored with his poetry
he was recommended to emperor xuanzong's
court but one of his poems that was
presented let's just say it was a little
bit too controversial and what could
have been didn't add them late in life
around the age of 40 he did a short
stint serving as a government official
but despite his efforts to join the
civil bureaucracy that wasn't the life
from uncle Ron he chucked it all in and
returned to his beloved obey province
the city of Shenyang up in the northwest
corner of Hebei bordering Shan she and
her none shang yang is one of those
ancient and historic cities in China
that's bigger than Los Angeles but I'm
betting none of my fellow American skis
I've ever heard of it when I visited the
city in the 1990s it was called Shang
fun and right there along the Han Shui
or Han River Hmong harren lived in
nature and wrote poems that regarded
nature along with Wang Wei Hmong was
another of these pioneers in this
landscape poetry or shun Shui sure Hmong
Horan was grouped together with about
half a dozen or so other poets who were
called the fields and Gardens poet group
Canyon sure pie the progenitor of this
style of poetry was Tao Hyun Ming and he
lived fourth fifth century during the
time of the eastern jin these later tong
poets who composed in this fields and
garden style of poetry
is Taoyuan Ming and popularized his
poems that focused on nature rather than
people so this fields and garden poetry
as well as landscape poetry was
something that started early but really
exploded in popularity during the tongue
and remained popular for centuries to
follow both one way and Hmong Quran were
the early masters of this kind of poetry
in their day let's finish off this
episode with a few of Hmong Horan's
poems he left behind about 270 of them
if he produced any other literary works
nothing has turned up yet and this first
poem I'm going to read concerns one way
it's called parting from long way
leo PA one way these two were friends I
don't know how much time they spent
together but they they certainly knew
each other and there's a story that says
they met in 728 and Chang An when both
were serving as officials in the
bureaucracy it goes like this
Gigi gingka died tchau tchau
consul cui ution fung taught you she
Guran wake dong woo Shui Shanta sure
Ling Shoji more wanyan gu yong fake
quietly I've waited here so long day
after day but now I must return now I go
to seek the fragrant grass but I grieve
to part from an old friend who was there
who would help me on the road
understanding friends are few in life I
should just observe my solitude and
close again the gate of my old home
here's another one of Monk Iran's better
known poems that falls into the
landscape poetry category this is called
mooring on the river at jente su
gendered young Yi Joe
Paul Yong chul sure mu coach Oshin yeah
Quang 10d Xu Chang Jing Yi Jing Ren my
boat is moored near an island misty gray
I'm grieved anew to see the parting day
and boundless plane trees seemed to
scrape the sky in water Claire the moon
appears so nigh and one last nature poem
of Hmong Quran it's called a spring
morning twin shell twin Mian boo Jessie
Oh
choo-choo when teen Yao yell I Fung you
shun hua law Jerusha in spring I sleep
unaware morning is here from far and
near
trilling songbirds I hear in the night's
pitter-patter of wind and rain how many
flowers fallen not few I fear so monkara
and Wang Wei two more greats from this
high Tong period of Chinese classical
poetry there were others of course
besides these ones discussed in the past
few episodes but if you somehow I have a
newfound appreciation for Tong poetry
these are all the go-to guys to start
with as I mentioned before the trend
hung sure the Complete Book of tong
poetry lists works from over 2200 poets
plenty to keep you busy if you want to
dive in headfirst in the next episode we
are going to move on to the middle
tongue or Jong tongue period this is
where we will get to bite you Yi Xie Tao
and others will see how many we can
squeeze in before the final whistle so
until that time this here is once again
Laszlo Montgomery the proprietor of this
joint bringing you Chinese history and
culture from the bottom of my heart if
you haven't guessed I'm signing off from
the town of Los Angeles California and
I'm really hoping that you'll consider
joining me in a mere two weeks time for
another poetic
episode of the China history podcast